# Visualisation of Methanogenesis

This application was designed to aid in the visualisation of the metabolic pathways of a common methanogen, _M. Acetivorens_. Data for the simulation is provided in the form of a JSON in the data directory. Provided is a JSON describing the Kinetic Model of Methanogensis in _M. Acetivorens_. All rate constants and reaction data are derived from [this paper](https://www.hindawi.com/journals/archaea/2014/898453/) by _Peterson et. al._,

This project was developed in CLion and XCode. Provided is a CMake.txt for testing and debugging backend logic. To run the actual application use the [final-project-KatherineRitchie.xcodeproj]() file. Line 80 of ofApp.cpp must be modified to provide the filepath for the methanogenesis.json file from the users root directory.

## Reflection

Overall, I am proud of this project. It took about 30-35 hours to complete from start to finish and is born from an idea about visualising metabolic pathways I have had for a long time. Using a JSON file allows me to modify the application without affecting the simulation engine. My use of the Google style guide is consistent. Using pointers when building Enzymes from Reactions and Reactions from Metabolites sped up simulation time. Also, I love my rainbow color scheme.
However, this application is far from perfect. OpenFrameWorks, although easy to use and build a GUI from, limited me in my ability to display information clearly, forced me to use a different style guide for the front and back end of my application and is, overall, quite bulky. Having to manually encode X and Y coordinates of metabolites in the JSON file would be cumbersome for a user. A more user-friendly model might have been built off of SBML, a universal file format for chemical reactions, and automatically organised the positioning of the metabolites on the pathway. Finally, the use of simple black lines to represent chemical equilibria clutters the visualization significantly. While it is easier to see the relationship between metabolites using this visualization method, it still does not capture the ‘flowing’ of metabolites down a pathway as well as I had hoped it would.
